Question 1
What is the main purpose of the MERGE command in SQL?
    Select all records
    Drop the table
    Perform insert or update in one step
    Grant permissions
Correct Answer: Perform insert or update in one step

Explanation: The MERGE statement is a powerful SQL command that allows you to perform conditional INSERT or UPDATE operations on a target table based on the existence of matching rows in a source table. This is often more efficient than writing separate INSERT and UPDATE statements.

Question 2
Which of the following commands modifies an existing structure of a table?
    CREATE
    ALTER
    DROP
    MERGE
Correct Answer: ALTER

Explanation: The ALTER command is used to modify the structure of an existing table. This includes adding, modifying, or dropping columns; and adding or dropping constraints.

Question 3
What does the ROLLBACK command do in SQL?
    Saves all the changes
    Deletes the entire table
    Undoes changes made since last commit
    Grants permissions
Correct Answer: Undoes changes made since last commit

Explanation: The ROLLBACK command is a Transaction Control Language (TCL) command. It is used to undo all the changes in the current transaction, which is everything that has happened since the last COMMIT or ROLLBACK command.

Question 4

Which of the following is a system privilege in DBMS?
    SELECT on a table
    INSERT on a table
    DELETE a specific row from a table
    CREATE TABLE
Correct Answer: CREATE TABLE

Explanation: System privileges grant a user the right to perform a specific action within the database system itself, like creating a table (CREATE TABLE), a user, or a role. Object privileges, on the other hand, grant permissions on a specific database object, such as a table (e.g., SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE).

   
Question 5
What is the purpose of authorization in DBMS?
    Encrypting the database
    Backing up data
    Granting permission to access specific database objects
    Recovering lost transactions
Correct Answer: Granting permission to access specific database objects

Explanation: Authorization in a Database Management System (DBMS) is the process of granting or denying a user permission to perform specific actions on specific data or objects, like a table or a view. It defines what a user is allowed to do.


Question 6
What is the correct SQL syntax to grant the role intern_role to a user named Prashant?
    GRANT intern_role FROM prashant;
    ASSIGN intern_role TO prashant;
    GRANT TO intern_role prashant;
    GRANT intern_role TO prashant;
Correct Answer: GRANT intern_role TO prashant;

Explanation: The correct syntax for granting a role to a user in SQL is GRANT <role_name> TO <user_name>;


Question 7
What type of statements are generally controlled by object privileges?
    DML
    DDL
    TCL
    Security Policies
Correct Answer: DML

Explanation: Data Manipulation Language (DML) statements like SELECT, INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE are the types of operations that are typically controlled by object privileges. These privileges are specific to a particular database object, such as a table or a view.


Question 8

What does the CIA triad in DBMS security stand for?
    Confidentiality, Integrity, Accessibility
    Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability
    Control, Integrity, Authorization
    Confidentiality, Information, Authorization

Correct Answer: Confidentiality, Integrity, Availability

Explanation: The CIA triad is a widely used security model that forms the foundation of information security. It represents three core principles:
    Confidentiality: Preventing unauthorized disclosure of information.
    Integrity: Ensuring data is accurate and has not been altered by unauthorized means.
    Availability: Ensuring information and resources are accessible to authorized users when needed.


Question 9

Which of the following is NOT a benefit of using roles in DBMS?
    Reduced privilege administration
    Individual transaction tracking
    Dynamic privilege management
    Application-specific security
Correct Answer: Individual transaction tracking

Explanation: Using roles simplifies privilege administration by allowing you to grant a set of privileges to a role and then assign that role to multiple users. This facilitates dynamic and application-specific security. Individual transaction tracking is a function of database logging and auditing, not a primary benefit of using roles.


Question 10

If your application deals with metrics, logs, or time-stamped sensor data, which type of database is most appropriate?

    Document Database
    Columnar Database
    Relational Database
    Time Series Database
Correct Answer: Time Series Database

Explanation: Time Series Databases are specifically optimized for handling large volumes of time-stamped data, such as metrics, logs, and sensor data. They are designed for fast ingestion and queries on data points ordered by time, making them ideal for these types of applications.


Question 11

The DCL command used to provide access rights to users is:
    GRANT
    REVOKE
    COMMIT
    ALTER
The correct answer is GRANT.

Explanation:
The GRANT command is a part of Data Control Language (DCL) and is used to give permissions to users to perform specific tasks on database objects, such as tables or views.
